Modularised project structure guide (#184)
digital-asset/cn-quickstart: sdk/docs/sharable/sdk/quickstart/configure/quickstart-project-structure/05-quickstart-example-application.rst

Application structure
=====================

Example application architecture
--------------------------------

It is tempting to see three layers and immediately assume these align
with the traditional 3-tier architecture (User Interface, Business

> Logic, Database), but doing this will result in underperforming
> applications generating unnecessary traffic on the Global Synchronizer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logic, Database), but doing this results in underperforming
applications that generate unnecessary traffic on the Global Synchronizer.
```

   from others.

-  Consensus Business Logic and State: Actions and data that require
   agreement or validation from multiple parties and need to be handled
   using Daml smart contracts.

+-------------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
| Frontend          | **User Interface**      |                        |
+-------------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
|                   | HTTP/JSON               |                        |
+-------------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
| Backend Services  | **Local Business Logic  |                        |
|                   | and State**             |                        |
+-------------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
|                   | GRPC/Protobuf           | HTTP/JSON              |
+-------------------+-------------------------+------------------------+
| Daml Models       | **Consensus Business    |                        |
|                   | Logic and State**       |                        |
+-------------------+-------------------------+------------------------+

> A symptom that you have fallen into the trap of treating the blockchain
> like a database is a prevalence of CRUD operations in the web-services
> provided by the backend. The blockchain is intended to synchronize data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sign that you have fallen into the trap of treating the blockchain
like a database is the prevalence of CRUD operations in the web services
provided by the backend. The blockchain is intended to synchronize data
```

between multiple organizations with little trust between them. This
means that the operations between organizations should be at a larger
granularity, invariably representing business operations rather than
updates to an object store\ *.*

The privacy guarantees provided by Canton do not exist on a publicly
visible ledger. So all business logic and business state that need to be
either authorized or verified by more than one party is implemented
within the Daml smart contract. The necessary consensus on

> authorization, verification, and/or visibility will then be coordinated

Author: The idea of using "is" here is conceptually fraught. This sentence is the future logical consequence, conditional on the action in the previous sentence.

We could use "can" here, but the implication is stronger than merely "permitting" the synchronization. The synchronization "will" occur if you include it in the model; and, "won't occur" if you don't.

> authorization, verification, and/or visibility will then be coordinated

Reviewer: I don't know if 'will then' fully conveys that either - maybe make more explicit, something like "The necessary authorization, verification, and/or visibility is coordinated[...] only if included in the model."?

For this example application, we have chosen to use OpenAPI [27]_. The
API definition is in `common/openapi.yaml`. It uses GET to access the
query services in the backend; and, POST to execute choices on contracts
identified by contract-id in the URL.

**Note:** This is using HTTP. The HTTP method semantics align
appropriately with the requirements of the Daml operations and we call
this a “JSON API”. However, it is not a pure ReST [28]_ API and does use
HATEOAS. As mentioned above, the blockchain should not be viewed as a
database since the underlying state is not rows in a database, or
objects in a datastore—either of which would be compatible with the
CRUD-style semantics that emerge with most modern ReST tooling. Instead
the architecture style used here is more akin to a sophisticated RPC
mechanism [29]_.

Backend Services Structure
--------------------------

The example backend is a SpringBoot [30]_ application the core of which
are the API implementation classes in
com.digitalasset.quickstart.service.

Most of this code is standard Java SQL-backed JSON-encoded HTTP web
service fare. The code itself is divided into seven modules under
com.digitalasset.quickstart.*:

> `config`: Mostly standard SpringBoot @ConfigurationProperties based

Author: Can't use hyphen here — it should however be in monospace.

open API schemas act as DTO (Data Transfer Object) definitions for the
front and back ends [32]_. In simple cases, such as the example
application, these can double as front end models when using a React,
MVVM, FRP, or similar front end architecture style.

The example application is a naive React web frontend [33]_ written in
Typescript [34]_. It accesses the Backend web services using the
generator-less Axios client to handle the lowest level transport,
configured in `src/api.ts`:

.. code-block::

   import OpenAPIClientAxios from 'openapi-client-axios';
   import openApi from '../../common/openapi.yaml';

   const api = new OpenAPIClientAxios({
        definition: openApi as any,
        withServer: { url: '/api' },
   });

   api.init();

   export default api;

Authentication is handled using OAuth2 against a mock OAuth server [35]_
to perform the login; and, bearer tokens to identify the Frontend to the
Backend. The Frontend does not have any knowledge of Canton, or Daml
Users or Parties, this is delegated entirely to the Backend.

The records defined by the OpenAPI definition are used directly as the
models maintained within the react stores, and from there to the views

> via the usual react handlers.

Author: It isn't by OpenAPI, but by the definition that is written using OpenAPI.
